Guo Min, who gave birth to test tube twins at age 56, escorts the children to school in Beijing on May 8, 2015. Photo: VCG

Zhang Heng, a 67-year-old woman in Beijing, should be thrilled. Recently she succeeded in getting pregnant with test tube twin babies.

But her brave choice did not bring her the blessings a normal mother-to-be usually gets.

She cannot get service from public hospitals, which consider it too risky for her to give birth, and many people have accused the silver-haired woman of being selfish for having a baby at her age.

"I just love children and want to have one of my own. [Now it seems] as if I was a guilty person. Am I doing something wrong?" Zhang said in a recent interview.

Zhang lost her only son four years ago.

She has made efforts to adopt a child, but all in vain. In the end, she and her husband decided to turn to a test tube baby, and succeeded this June in Taiwan. But due to her high blood pressure, a big hospital in Beijing suggested that she terminate her pregnancy, and the health department even reportedly asked several major hospitals to report to them if she tries to get treatment. This has put her under a lot of pressure, and she dares not go to the hospital for routine checks. Instead, she stays at home to rest.

"Having another child is the best way to cure the trauma [of the death of a child]. It is a thing that only people like us who have gone through the pain could understand," explains Li Qing (pseudonym), 65, who lost her only daughter over 20 years ago and then gave birth to another daughter.

According to news website Netease, a study by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences shows that as a result of the family planning policy in the past decades, there are 150 million only children nationwide. More than 1 million families have lost their only children to diseases and accidents.

These are known as shidu families. Many of these families have, in spite of their advanced age, chosen to have or adopt another baby to help heal from their loss.

It is not an easy decision to make. This group of women, mostly in their 40s to 60s, is bound to shoulder more pressure in getting pregnant, giving birth to and bringing up a child. Besides economic pressure, the psychological issues facing these parents, many of whom live with the trauma of the loss of their first child, is worth more attention from society, experts say.